# Customer-Churn
###### For many organizations, customer churn is an integral parameter since acquiring a new customer could cost almost 7 times more than retaining an existing customer. Customer churn can prove to be a roadblock for an exponentially growing organization and a retention strategy should be in place to keep a check on customer churn rates. There are two types of churn-voluntary churn and involuntary churn where voluntary churn occurs due to a decision made by the customer to switch to another company or service provider and involuntary churn occurs due to several reasons such as relocation of the customer, or those  customers  whom the Telecom industry decides to remove as a subscriber for fraud, non-payment or death. Analysts focus mainly on voluntary churn where the factors involving can be controlled by the organization such as the cost of the service, tenure, contract etc. Most models predict churn by concentrating on the propensity of risk to churn. Predicting customer churn not only gives an opportunity to win back the customers, it helps businesses understand how and precisely when to do it. Machine Learning models help understand patterns of customer behavior by sifting through data and identifying common attributes of customer behavior. This allows businesses to identify what kinds of customer action most often leads to churn. Customers’ churn is a considerable concern in service sectors with highly competitive services. My project focuses on the behavior of telecommunication industry customers who are likely to churn from the service by using Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest and Artificial Neural Network as previously said.
